Hello. In this video we'll be going over Updates, Upgrades and Dependencies.
That might sound a little weird at first,
but we will understand it more as we go through the video.
So, we will be starting off with our Package Manager,
and define what it is.
And we will be showing you one Package Manager as an example, which is APT.
And show of what each individual command does,
the important commands, not all the commands.
This is an important distinction as this is not a Package Manager tutorial.
It's just how you get started with it.
And we'll be talking about
all the important Dependencies that you might need for your other programs.
As mentioned earlier, this isn't
all the Dependencies that you might need for your project.
This is just the ones that we are using a lot.
Yes.
So, I'll be giving it off to Simon.
So, what is a package manager you might ask?
Well, it basically, if you ever installed a program on your computer,
you maybe possibly have used an installer that you had to download.
So, this kind of gets rid of that,
and puts that program in a small Package.
And it's given to a Package manager.
So, that is easily installed.
So, not only does it install just the program itself,
if it has any Dependencies that aren't installed yet, it will install it with it.
And then, one often used manager in Debian is APT, which,
stands for Advanced Package Tool,
and it basically it is like the gateway to all the programs you
want to use on a Debian Linux system.
So, I'll be talking about some of the commands that
you'll be running countless times through your experience with Debian.
Joe trust me you'll be using this a lot.
So, the first command is sudo apt-get update,
and this is not actually updating the system.
What it's doing is like it's just updating information.
Like let us say I want to give you some news.
I'm like updating you on the news itself,
but you're not like actually doing anything with it.
So, is it just fetches a list of
Packages and the links that are provided in this document.
And where the update actually happens is the sudo apt-get upgrade.
And this basically installs all the links that you got from update,
and then install the Packages that you specified and those links.
Sudo apt-get dist-upgrade.
It's the same as upgrade,
except that it will do a little bit more.
Intelligently install Dependencies and remove unnecessary Packages,
that aren't needed anymore because of the upgrade.
While it is intelligent,
this might still be a little dangerous sometimes as
you don't want to remove some Packages,
or like install more Packages,
because of the fact that it might take up more memory.
And then the last thing is sudo apt-get install,
and this is just installing a specific Package that you want.
So, as we saw in the earlier video,
we wanted to install just Eclipse.
So, we typed in sudo apt-get install Eclipse,
and then this installed the newest version of that Package.
Yes.
So, yes. So, some important Dependencies,
again these are not all of them, it is just that the majority that
we'll be using in this course.
So, you can see here, this is just a quick command.
If you copy and paste it into your journal,
you can just install all of these at once.
It will take some time, but this just helps us avoid just typing them each individually.
So, you could if you wanted to type in sudo apt-get install arduino-mk.
And then sudo apt-get install arduino,
and then just do each one, git build-essential autoconf.
To help you with that, we just put them all under one thing.
So, we'll be highlighting some important Dependencies that we are using.
The first one is the arduino-mk,
Dependency which basically is just a Makefile for Arduino files.
This is useful when we want to upload an Arduino program through the command line.
And, we'll be showing you this in-depth later on.
This is the Arduino IDE.
So, again we had an Eclipse IDE,
and this is essentially the same thing.
The only thing about Arduino is that very helpful,
which is there's some extra tools that's there specifically for Arduino.
And then get will also be talking about this one more in a later video,
but basically you need to have
basic version control capabilities like saving to a pository.
That might sound a little weird, will you'll understand it more on later videos.
And Build-Essential.
This is mostly just like important programs that we need to,
if we wanted to build programs from source.
And Python-Dev.
So, this is the language that we'll be
using for the majority in this course which is Python.
We chose it because it's easy to use,
and a lot of modules and tools to use.
So, take away. So, sudo apt-get will be
your main access point to installing new things on Linux.
This will help you install new Packages,
because of how easy it is.
You'll just type in one command and it will just install it for you.
Yes. Remember Package Managers aren't the only way of installing Packages.
The reason why I installed build-essentials before is,
sometimes we also want to build program from source.
And honestly you would basically just
download the file folder like files that they give you,
and then just build it from there.
Not going to the Package manager at all.
So many programs will require different Dependencies,
and we want you to explore whatever Dependencies you might need for your program.
And yes, we just provided a few as we mentioned earlier.
But if you want to know more about what Packages are necessary for your program,
we want you to use your favorite search engine to find
on your search engine to match what you need.
In conclusion, we just wanted you
to learn about just installing new things due to the terminal.
Usually you would just go on your web and search for your Package,
and just press download.
And how it will help you install programs,
like on Mac or Windows.
But, and the next you can just do everything through the terminal.
Very quick. Yes, very easy.